---
layout: post
title:  "How I learned fencing."
categories: blog
tags: [life]
---
I entered into college with no friends or family. I was abandoned and had to
figure out life on my own. In my first Computer Science class, I had a
classmate who was definitely a nerd. His name was Johnathan. I decided I need
to make friends, so I chose him to be my friend. Initially, I bugged him after
class. One day, he said he was going to join the fencing club. I didn't know
BYU-Idaho had a fencing club. Actually, I didn't even know what fencing was. I
asked him the information about it and showed up there on the first day.

I was very shy at the time, but willing to put myself into situations that I
felt uncomfortable in. I enrolled in fencing every semester from Freshman to
Junior year in college. I never felt like I fit in and Johnathan was my only
friend the whole time. Johnathan fit in very well though. At the end of the
first semester fencing tournament, Johnathan almost won it. By the time
Johnathan and I were seniors, he was finally in charge of the fencing club,
while I barely participated.

I feel like my life philosophy can be reflected by a few experiences in my
college fencing career.

I would spend the entire 2-hour period fencing everyone in the room. I wouldn't
engage in long conversations. So I didn't really make friends there besides
Johnathan.

Near the end of my college experience, I would often go to fencing, but not
socialize with anyone. Treat it more like an exercise. I would try to fence the
best people and sometimes win, but sometimes lose. But I would never talk about
it and no one really knew me. One time there was an instructor who I didn't
know, I asked to fence him. He assumed I was a beginner. Before we fenced, he
said he would go easy on me, then I replied that he doesn't need to. The match
finished with me getting every point and the fencing instructor not getting a
single point. He was very frustrated at himself, because he thought he was
really good at fencing, but a stranger beat him. He said that I should be an
instructor, but I replied that I'm not that good and I don't have very much
time to. I feel like many of the people in the fencing club were not very
serious. They were there more for the social nerdy environment, instead of
trying to improve their skills.

By the end, though Johnathan was a fencing expert. He had his own equipment,
while I was still renting from the school. The last time I ever fenced him was
very memorable. I hadn't fenced very much that semester, but I had been
exercising. He asked me for a match, knowing that this match may very well be
the last match to our long rivalship.

I beat him by a considerable amount of points. He felt pretty bad because he
had been going to fencing much more regularly and consistent than him. But I
had been practicing in my own ways, separate from the fencing club.

I'm not saying I know which ways are correct when it comes to learning a skill
or understanding life. But I am sharing this so the reader understands my life
a little bit more.
